Where do we want to be born? We want to be born
into a certain heavenly realm, then into a
certain family, then into a royal or noble family, then
into a
wealthy and prestigious family. That is, if we want to be
born wherever we wish, then
this person must have accumulated
much merit and good karma.
[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, we all wish to have our
birth place
according to our wishes. Today,
in this section on Choosing the Right Place, we will
discuss how
we can choose
our own birth place in the next life. That is,
wherever we want to be born, we will be born there;
however we want to be born, we will be
born in that way. That is a
very happy and wonderful thing when
we learn the Buddha's teachings.
This also teaches us how to
proactively sow the seeds so that
we can create
our own birth place in the next life.
Somewhere, even if we can't
fully comprehend it, we can still
imagine the names of the
esteemed practitioners and
where we will end up. Today, I would like to discuss the Dharma,
still in lesson 95. The
second point in this lesson, the first point I
discussed yesterday was when the Indra would gather to
give his blessing.
Today, the second point will be about
how to choose our own place of
birth in the next life. I respectfully ask the esteemed
practitioners to join hands and recite the
Buddha's name, praying for his blessings during this
Dharma discussion.
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni,
Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully, esteemed
Dharma friends, in the
9th sutra, regarding doubt about conception, I
will discuss the second point. I would like to read
the Sutra of the
Venerable Na
[music]
who
said there are only four causes, Your
Majesty: the cause due to the
impact of karma, the cause due to different birth methods and places of birth, and the cause
due to different lineages and clans.
And fourthly, it is due to being invited. These
are the four ways in which people are born.
Following the previous sutra,
King Minanda asked, "Are there
any other causes of the reincarnation of
beings?" Venerable Nāgānā replied, "
Now let's
listen to
what is due to the influence of
karma, Venerable King Minanda." Venerable
Nāgānā replied, "Of course, karma determines
all the realms of rebirth in the six realms,
but here I only want to talk about beings with good roots and accumulated
merit.
They have the ability to go wherever they
wish, according to their determination and aspirations.
For example, they want to be reborn in the
heavenly realms, into a royal family of high power and prestige,
or into a wealthy and prestigious Brahmin family. They
can all achieve this without
any obstacle." Venerable Nāgānā said, "These are
beings with good roots and accumulated
merit. They have the ability to go
wherever they wish, according to their determination and
aspirations." Therefore, wherever
we want to be reborn, wherever we want to be
reborn, that is...  To be born into a certain heavenly realm,
one desires to be born into a particular family, to be
born into a royal
family, to be born into a wealthy and prestigious family,
to be born into a certain circle—that is, to have
one's wishes fulfilled. That is, to be
born wherever one
wishes, one must
have accumulated much merit and
good karma. So, what is meant by having merit? We have the five faculties: the faculty of faith, the faculty of effort, the faculty of mindfulness, the faculty of concentration, and the faculty of mindfulness.
Therefore, one must
have merit, which is faith. The faculty of faith means believing in
good deeds. The faculty of effort means diligently practicing good deeds. The faculty of mindfulness means always remembering, thinking, and practicing good things—that is, thinking good thoughts, speaking good words, and doing good deeds. This is mindfulness, which means having good thoughts,
not evil thoughts. Then there is the faculty of concentration, which means
practicing meditation.
Within meditation, there is
wrong concentration and right concentration.  So,
we must practice the
correct methods of Concentration, dear fellow practitioners. Correct Concentration means the opposite and the same
with the methods of liberation.
For example, when we practice meditation,
from the precepts we attain concentration, which gives rise to wisdom.
Dear fellow practitioners, if we observe the precepts,
we will attain concentration.
Therefore, we must have this concentration from
observing the precepts. Then, wisdom
arises from concentration, so by
observing the precepts, we will have
both concentration and wisdom.
So, if we want to be reborn according to
our wishes in the next life, for example,
we may have
this wish: wherever we are reborn, we will
meet
virtuous teachers and enlightened masters to help
us practice. That is our wish for our
next life, dear fellow practitioners. To
achieve this,
we must remember to strictly observe the precepts, dear fellow
practitioners. The five precepts of a lay
Buddhist must be strictly observed.
Then, we must always focus
our minds on this aspiration, so that
wherever we are reborn, we will meet them.  Having met the
Buddha's teachings, encountered enlightened masters, and received
guidance from virtuous and knowledgeable individuals in
my practice—the B-part, "virtuous and
knowledgeable," encompasses both the human realm and the celestial realms,
including benevolent spirits—there are many in the
spiritual realms who help us in our practice.
For example, when Prince Siddhartha
went out through the four gates of the city, he encountered birth, old age,
sickness, and death, and the ascetic was
also a manifestation of a celestial being.
Therefore, in our practice, we
cannot do without external
support and virtuous and knowledgeable individuals. We
hope that wherever we are born, we will
meet virtuous and
knowledgeable individuals and enlightened masters to help us practice according to the Buddha's teachings until the day we attain Buddhahood. Everyone has this aspiration. Therefore, this sutra, this section on "Choosing" (or "Selecting"), is true to our hearts, and today we understand clearly how to achieve this.
Remember, practice
requires cultivating good roots and accumulating much
merit
so that we can reach our desired destination and fulfill our aspirations.
Yen also wants to
reiterate a little.  This has a virtuous
root, as we have just heard.
All these blessings are
based on precepts, concentration, and
wisdom. And faith is our pure faith towards the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha,
towards the Three
Jewels, as you all remember, pure mindfulness, pure
mindfulness, and diligent mindfulness.
We must diligently
practice the Dharma, diligently observe the precepts, and diligently
perform meritorious deeds.
Remember, dear fellow practitioners,
that mindfulness, if done
correctly in meditation,
is the Four Foundations of Mindfulness. The Four
Foundations of Mindfulness are four places: the
body, feelings, mind, and phenomena. The body is
impermanent, as we
have already learned. Feeling is suffering; all
these feelings give rise to suffering. The feeling of
the human body gives rise to suffering.
Then all our sensations
also cause us great suffering. Feeling is suffering;
the mind is impermanent, and phenomena are non-self.
Therefore, we must contemplate impermanence, non-self, suffering,
impermanence, and non-self. Contemplating the
impurity of the body—all this mindfulness
is called mindfulness.  Remember,
all these thoughts require us to
practice virtuous deeds within the precepts. Only then can
we truly practice this fundamental principle, my dear fellow
practitioners.
We see that this life is full of suffering, and this suffering stems from our
attachment and craving. Therefore,
we practice the precepts to gradually eliminate
our attachment and craving. Then,
we understand impermanence and the inability to grasp
anything, thus we can abandon the five
desires and live a life of moderation and contentment. If we saw things as
permanent, we wouldn't have
abandoned them. Then, because all phenomena
are without self, we practice the Six
Harmonies to achieve the merit of
impermanence, non-self, and
suffering. This means we have Right View and
liberation. In the Six Harmonies, we
practice all things with Right View, my dear
fellow practitioners, leading us to
our ultimate goal: Supreme Enlightenment. To
achieve this, in every
lifetime, we
must be born into a place where we can
practice.  So today, dear fellow practitioners,
we know how to follow
this lesson and this sutra.
If we want to be reborn according to our wishes, we
must steadfastly practice observing the precepts
and performing all meritorious deeds to accumulate merit.
By practicing the Six Harmonious Principles, we
hope that in our next life we ​​will be
reborn as we wish,
wherever we are born, we will meet virtuous teachers and
enlightened masters, and establish a
place of practice to achieve merit, cultivate
Bodhicitta, protect the Three Jewels,
spread the Dharma throughout the
world, and dedicate it to the attainment of Supreme Enlightenment.
However, if
we don't know how to practice,
we will be vague and think, "Okay,
today I'll just go to the temple and do some volunteer work, or
I'll just stay home and
chant sutras for people, or I'll just do
this and that, and I'll have merit." That's not true
merit, dear fellow practitioners. That's
just doing good deeds,
not true merit for where we want to be
reborn.  Is it okay to do it according to one's own will?
It must have merit
within the roots of diligent practice, mindfulness, concentration, and wisdom,
dear fellow practitioners. That's why we have accumulated
many good roots and blessings, so we must
generate these good roots
and accumulate many blessings from
these good deeds. Only then can we have
a next life in the place
we desire and continue our practice, dear fellow
practitioners. I wish you all
diligence, but remember to listen once, but
listen many times, then write it down to see if all
your actions are in accordance with the Dharma.
Examine your mind carefully every day, and before
thinking about anything, put the Dharma first.
While thinking, use the Dharma to
contemplate, and after that, practice
correctly what you have contemplated according to the Dharma.
Only then can we have the
merit and blessings to be born
wherever we wish. It's
not that we are not
practicing the Bodhisattva path;
we all already have the Bodhisattva path. Whether we
practice it or not is up
to us to choose.  It's not that there isn't,
so Yen thinks, "Yes, it's
not that we're
living in the past, but we must live in the present. The
present Bodhisattva practice already exists,
and we just need to see how we practice it. The
test
for us is how to perform this Bodhisattva practice. There
are already six
precepts and vows, so if we just
practice accordingly, in the next life
we ​​will continue to the place where we can
complete all the Bodhisattva practices and attain
Supreme Enlightenment.
I wish you all diligence and a shared vow to strive
together until
the day of achieving Supreme Enlightenment.
Dear fellow practitioners, please listen
again to the Master's lecture on his channel,
lecture number 95. In that lecture, there are
many ideas, but Yen only selected those that are suitable
for our practice, the Buddhists
in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, to encourage you all.
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Now, I
invite you all to dedicate the
merits."
May I
dedicate
this merit
to
all disciples and sentient beings so that they may all
attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
K
[Applause]
[Music]